into more vital winter feed supplies in
mid and south canterbury where the
region's been pounded with fierce winds
torrential rain and snow rural
communities say if it gets worse a stock
will suffer badly here's donnamarie
liver farmers forced to face near arctic
conditions to get food to the hungry
stock the biggest problem is that we're
not going to be able to get here cows
back on the kale because it'll be buried
in snow it may be a familiar scene here
in the south but the difference this
time is it could go on for days normally
a snow event might last six or eight
hours we don't know how long this is
technically gonna last and that means
big problems but builds up and get some
too much it'll just squash all the cow
on it and won't be able to keep the cows
feed we'll have to find something else
feed out all the solids farm houses in
Mayfield mount summers and Staveley
faced power outages for hours right now
it's not too bad you know we've got the
coal range going Suppan there you know
no power we've lost power nine hundred
homes in and around the South Canterbury
town of fairly suffered a similar fate
no power situation is to have we got the
33 line out and we got some guys
patrolling the Lord up and down to see
if we can find the fault rural roads
made for dicey driving even local
struggled but pretty slippery and it's
pretty hard hard getting through it
it wouldn't go anywhere that change and
4dr one thing as well as the snow the
area here has also been hit by very icy
winds and torrential rain throughout the
day which is causing concerns flooding
will also be an issue there's just no
way for it to go the grounders moisture
holding capacity it's got to go to the
rivers and now we've got the snow on top
of that and it's starting to fall very
quickly farmers are bracing for an early
start again tomorrow they'll be hoping
conditions and proof for the sake of
their stock donna-marie lever one use